Build a robot! - part 1: In this lesson, we will have a look at the case for which we will build a
robot and automate a simple process.
We will have a look at the different process steps.
We will do them manually and we'll also have a walkthrough of the solution in UiPath Studio so that
we know our end goal before we build a robot in the next lesson.
The situation is as follows; we have a French currency analysis firm that sends a daily report on the
price movement of the top 20 cryptocurrencies by market capitalization to their clients.
The complication is that the data from the report is manually collected from the website
www.coinmarketcap.com and sent to clients every morning at 6 a.m. in both .CSV and Excel Workbook (.XLSX) file format.
The key question is, could we somehow automate this process?
And the answer to that question is, of course, yes!
This sounds like a perfect process for robotic process automation technology.
OK, so having a look at the different steps, the first step is to open the browser and we will be
using Google Chrome in this example, although it needs us to install an extension in UiPath. Once the
browser is open, we need to navigate to coinmarketcap.com, where we will find the data on the
cryptocurrencies.
And once we're at the site, step three is to copy the data on the top 20 cryptocurrencies by market capitalization.
This data then need to be pasted into an Excel sheet and we need to save it as both .CSV and .XLSX
file.
And then finally, we need to mail the data to our clients.
So let's do the process together manually.
First, I will open the Google Chrome browser and I will navigate to coinmarketcap.com.
And now that we're here, we can see the top 100 cryptocurrencies by market capitalization, meaning that
the list is already in the order we want.
So I'm just going to mark the top 20 cryptocurrencies by market capitalization and copy the data.
Once the data is copied, I will open Excel and make a new blank workbook and paste the data.
And then I will just clean away the last and the first column.
OK, so now that we have the data, we just want to save it.
And I will save it on my computer.
I will call it "cryptodata".
And first I'll save it
as a Excel Workbook file.
And then I'll save it as a .CSV file.
Now we've actually been through the process manually, we've opened a browser, we went to the website,
we took the data, we pasted it into Excel, and we saved it as both a comma separated values file,
an Excel Workbook file.
The only step remaining is to email it to clients,
but we will not do that right now.
So let's go through the solution in UiPath Studio.
Here in the designer panel, you will see the workflow containing the different activities needed
to perform our process, namely opening the browser, navigating to coinmarketcap.com, collecting
the data and saving the data into different file types. Before we start going through the different
activities,
I just want to show you how to install the Google Chrome extension in UiPath.
So then we navigate to "home" and from home we go to "tools".
And here you see you can install the browser extension for automating websites in Chrome.
We just click it and you see now that it was successfully installed for my user.
You also need to enable the browser extension by navigating to Chrome extensions and then restart the
browser.
Now I'm going to show you what activities are here and then we build a robot together in the next lesson.
All right, so first of all, these green boxes with text is just for information.
It's an activity called "comment".
So here you can basically just write what you want, to give information to
who's ever going to look at your code.
OK, so the first thing we want to do is to open a browser and navigate to coinmarketcap.com.
I've just dragged the activity into the workflow here and I put in the name of the website and that's basically
it.
I also have to change the browser type to Chrome in the properties panel.
Then I've added a data scraping activity and the data scraping activity was added by using the data
scraping wizard from the design bar in the ribbon.
So this activity will go to coinmarketcap.com and extract the data that we want.
And here you can also see that I've chosen to close the tab and browser after the data is scraped.
When the data is scraped, we have to save it in a data table.
So I've created a data table variable called "dtCryptoData", and that's where the data is stored.
So when he data is stored,
we can write it to .CSV or write it to an .XLSX file,
and that's what I've done in these activities.
You can see there are no file path specified for where to save the files.
So that means that your files will be saved into the project folder.
I'll just open the project folder now to show you that it's empty.
The projects folder is located in > Documents > UiPath > [Name of your robot]
And as you can see, we only have a few files here, "Main", which is the file we're currently working
in in UiPath. And "project" is just a .JSON file with some information about the project.
Once we've created the files, I'll also asked UiPath to display a message box showing that the
data was successfully scraped and saved to .CSV and .XLSX in the project folder.
So that's pretty much it.
That's what we want to do.
That's our little robot automating the process.
And if you want to challenge yourself, you may try to send the files to yourself using your preferred
mail client.
So let's run the robot and see what happens.
So we see that the robot opens the browser, it gets the data, it closes the browser and the message
box pops up; "Data successfully scraped and saved".
So as you can see, that was done pretty quickly, although we just spent a minute doing this manually,
the robot does it in a few seconds.
Let's open our project folder and see.
Yep, we have two files here, one Excel file and one .CSV file.
So let's just open the Excel file and check that the data was scraped successfully - and it may look so.
You can also refresh in the project activities and snippets panel and see that your files are added
to the project folder and open the files from here.
So that's it.
And those of you who want to real challenge now can try to do this process without looking at the next
lesson.
And for those of you that want even an extra challenge, you could also add an activity to send the
files as an email attachment to yourself.
I would be very positively surprised if you managed to do that without having any prior knowledge of
UiPath Studio or programming at all.
But it is possible and you may, for example, use Google or the UiPath Community Forum to help you if you're
stuck.
If not, we will build this together in the next lesson, step by step.